# README 

Here is our folder of the MDST Project, 'Education deserts'. Background and information of subfolders is provided below.

All analysis were carried out in **Python 3.7.3 64-bit**

# Background
“Education Deserts” are places far from post-secondary educational institutions, where “college opportunities are few and far between”. In this paper from researchers at UW-Madison, education deserts are defined as places with either of these two conditions:

Zero colleges or universities are located nearby, or one community college is the only public broad-access institution nearby.

It seems (and may even be obvious) that geography plays a huge role in people’s educational pursuits and decisions, even in a digital, globally connected world. After all, we attend a huge state university with a large impact on its surrounding community. But just how large an impact does it make?

## Background reading
See pdf file, 'Klasik et al. - 2018 - Out of the Education Desert How Limited Local Col.pdf'


## Clean Data
The clean data folder has any processed version of the 'Raw Data', such as filtered and merged datasets. 

-   Shape_EducationDesertsCBSA _Shapefiles created after combining school and college data with the CBSA data.

## Code
The python code used to process and analyze the data. 

-   DataCleanUp.py _data cleaning code_

-   DataExploration.py _preliminary data exploration_

## Figures
The figure images that will be used for presentations etc.


## Notes
In this folder are a series of markdown files with notes on the work pipeline for the Education Desert Project. The idea behind this is to provide a week to week pipeline so people 'trickling' in and out of the project can easliy follow along--also, it ensures reproduciblity.

- Week 1: Work on setting up a GitHub for the Education Desert Project. Set general goals for the semester, and links related to the former as need be (e.g., wikipages on exploratory data analysis).

## Raw Data
In this folder is the raw data prior to any processing (e.g., remove 'NAs', data merging).

### ELS data set

Source: Downloaded from link:
    This is data from Education Longitudinal Study of 2002, more information here https://catalog.data.gov/dataset/education-longitudinal-study-of-2002.

General information can be found here: https://catalog.data.gov/dataset/education-longitudinal-study-of-2002

 #### F2Student‐InstitutionFil (attendedandapplied‐toasofF2
-   els_02_12_f2inst_v1_0.csv
    -   MetaData: Student_institution-F2.pdf

#### Education Longitudinal Study of 2002, High School Sophomores (ELS:2002)
-   els_02_12_byf1sch_v1_0.csv
    -   MetaData: Education Longitudinal Study of 2002, High School Sophomores (ELS:2002)

_This data set provides very detailed information of the 10th graders (e.g., financial background, extracurriculars...)_

#### F3Student‐InstitutionFile
-   els_02_12_f3inst_v1_0.csv
    -   MetaData: Student_institution-F3.pdf  

#### TIGER/Line Shapefile, 2017, nation, U.S., Current Metropolitan Statistical Area/Micropolitan Statistical Area (CBSA) National 

-   tl_2017_us_cbsa

_NOTE these are shape file, and require '.shp', '.shx', and '.prj'._



## Reports

In this folder are any report files (e.g., slides, summary statistics printed in PDF) generated by the team.

